files.md, before:

# [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py) Project Files

File | Project Component
---- | -----------------
[aa_ansiicolor.py](aa_ansiicolor.py) | Python import library used by unit tests
[aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py) | Python import library implementing project functionality
[aagen](aagen) | command line utility to filter / process input macro() src
[aagen-example.txt](aagen-example.txt) | Example source file for [aagen](aagen)
[authoring.md](authoring.md) | Tips on how to author for [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py)
[enhancement.md](enhancement.md) | Guide to adding functionality to [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py)
[expected.html](expected.html) | Used by unit tests
[feature-list.md](feature-list.md) | Project feature list
**files.md** | This File
[leo.png](leo.png) | Photo of endorsing party
[mactest.txt](mactest.txt) | Used by unit tests
[martomac.README.md](martomac.README.md) | General explanation of [martomac.py](martomac.py)
[martomac.py](martomac.py) | Markdown-to-aa\_macro() format convertor
[mtm.md](mtm.md) | Test file for [martomac.py](martomac.py)
[mycustommd.mac](mycustommd.mac) | Sample file for [martomac.py](martomac.py) \-m option
[README.md](README.md) | General explanation of project intent, fit
[tease.png](tease.pg) | Image used in [README.md](README.md)
[test.gif](test.gif) | Test image for unit tests
[test.jpg](test.jpg) | Test image for unit tests
[test.png](test.png) | Test image for unit tests
[test_aa_macro.py](test_aa_macro.py) | Unit tests
[testing.README.md](testing.README.md) | General explanation of unit tests
[textmate-syntax.txt](textmate-syntax.txt) | OS X Textmate syntax highlighting for macro\(\)
[todo.md](todo.md) | List of remaining project goals
[unknown.syntax](unknown.syntax) | Midnight Commander syntax highlighting for macro\(\)
[users-guide.md](users-guide.md) | How to use class `macro()` to process text

Commit message:

added [vb], modified [table] and [row] to not generate newlines, ++unittests, ++documentation +quickref

files.md, after:

# [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py) Project Files

File | Project Component
---- | -----------------
[aa_ansiicolor.py](aa_ansiicolor.py) | Python import library used by unit tests
[aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py) | Python import library implementing project functionality
[aagen](aagen) | command line utility to filter / process input macro() src
[aagen-example.txt](aagen-example.txt) | Example source file for [aagen](aagen)
[authoring.md](authoring.md) | Tips on how to author for [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py)
[enhancement.md](enhancement.md) | Guide to adding functionality to [aa_macro.py](aa_macro.py)
[expected.html](expected.html) | Used by unit tests
[feature-list.md](feature-list.md) | Project feature list
**files.md** | This File
[leo.png](leo.png) | Photo of endorsing party
[mactest.txt](mactest.txt) | Used by unit tests
[martomac.README.md](martomac.README.md) | General explanation of [martomac.py](martomac.py)
[martomac.py](martomac.py) | Markdown-to-aa\_macro() format convertor
[mtm.md](mtm.md) | Test file for [martomac.py](martomac.py)
[mycustommd.mac](mycustommd.mac) | Sample file for [martomac.py](martomac.py) \-m option
[quickref.txt](quickref.txt) | Quick reference source in macro\(\) format
[quickref.html](quickref.html) | Quick reference in HTML
[README.md](README.md) | General explanation of project intent, fit
[tease.png](tease.pg) | Image used in [README.md](README.md)
[test.gif](test.gif) | Test image for unit tests
[test.jpg](test.jpg) | Test image for unit tests
[test.png](test.png) | Test image for unit tests
[test_aa_macro.py](test_aa_macro.py) | Unit tests
[testing.README.md](testing.README.md) | General explanation of unit tests
[textmate-syntax.txt](textmate-syntax.txt) | OS X Textmate syntax highlighting for macro\(\)
[todo.md](todo.md) | List of remaining project goals
[unknown.syntax](unknown.syntax) | Midnight Commander syntax highlighting for macro\(\)
[users-guide.md](users-guide.md) | How to use class `macro()` to process text
